Acme Gourmet Meals (AGM) Data Engineering Project

This project utilizes my data engineering skills to address certain business challenges facing a hypothetical fresh food startup called Acme Gourmet Meals (AGM). Notebooks 1.1-1.6 are meant to identify AGM's best customers. In this first part of the project, I have expanded my Github knowledge, designed queries using a data model in Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) format, used secondary datasets to enhance primary datasets. designed and created various data visualizations, wrote functional programming code with Python and SQL, worked with the Linux command line, operated virtual machines on the AWS cloud, worked with Docker containers, and proposed ideas on how the sales data can be used to help identify best customers.

The second part of the project - completed through notebooks 2.1-2.7 - addresses the scenario when AGM adopts a delivery option. Management of AGM seeks insights on the Proof of Concept (POC) through data science. The new initiative AGM is hoping to assess is the pairing of the business with a hypothetical delivery business called Peak Deliveries. The task for the data engineers is to analyze Peak sales data provided by Peak by loading in the data. At the end of the project, I gained skills in creating mapping tables to assist with integrating third-party data with primary data, parsing nested JSON files, designing and creating staging tables that accept dirty data, loading and validating dirty data, matching staging table data with primary table data, conducting data cleansing and exploration, as well as performing preliminary analytics.

Finally, the third part of the project - completed through notebooks 3.1-3.5, check_data.ipynb, drone_delivery.ipynb, and Djikstra.ipynb - takes place after several successful years at AGM, when the executives envision the future of the company through innovative delivery options. One of those delivery options is through the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) System. This project focuses on implementing a preliminary Proof of Concept as part of a broader vision of expanding AGM business. The business cases considered are adding more convenient AGM pickup locations based on the BART map system, planning drone delivery strategies, and finding the most efficient way to moving goods from one BART station to another. By the end of the project, I have learned how to interact with NoSQL databases such as Neo4j, MongoDB, and Redis. Additionally, I also learned how to apply graph algorithms for shortest paths and degree centrality. 
   
